Why is it there are some YouTubers that
are so liked, so beloved that their
videos are shared with millions of
people? Creators like Alex Mosian can
come into the most saturated business
space and become one of the top creators
in just 2 to 3 years. Well, it's because
they've mastered this one concept to
build trust at scale. And they use it
consistently in every script and video
that they create. I promise you that
once you understand this concept and
integrate it into your script writing
system, you'll be able to turn any
stranger into a super fan in less than
10 minutes. You see, most of the
information on YouTube is surface level.
And once you binge all of these videos
in a certain niche, you're left empty.
You feel like there's still some missing
information. And that's because of a
fundamental problem with most YouTube
scripts. Let me read out two examples,
and I want you to tell me which one you
trust more by the end of it. So the
topic will be on how to hook viewers in
the first 15 seconds. When we tested
common YouTube hooks on 50 videos, we
saw a clear pattern. The videos that
opened with standard hooks averaged 35%
audience retention. But when we switched
all approached, retention jumped to 67%.
The key factor is belief disruption.
Most hooks try to grab attention, but
attention isn't enough. You need to
disrupt what viewers believe about your
topic. Why? Because humans are drawn to
information that challenges their
current understanding. We found our
highest performing videos didn't just
hook viewers. They made viewers question
what they thought that they knew. For
example, a client's finance video opened
with the 50 3020 budget rule most
finance channels recommend. It's costing
you thousands. This immediately
disrupted a common belief. The hook
disrupted a common belief. So I tell my
clients before you write your hook, ask
yourself, what belief does my audience
hold that might be limiting them?
Because understanding that belief is
your gold mine for hooks that don't just
grab attention, they create genuine
investment from your audience. Okay, now
let's compare this approach to this
second approach of explaining how to
write a hook. So to write a hook, steal
these five hooks that will keep your
viewers watching. Hook number one is the
bold claim. I made $10,000 in one day
using this one simple method. Hook
number two is the question, which says,
"What if you could double your
subscribers this month?" Hook number
three is the pattern interrupt. Most
people think common belief, they're
wrong. Hook number four is the story
setup. Last week, I lost everything. And
hook number five is the curiosity gap.
There's one thing successful YouTubers
never talk about. And then I go on to
talk about all these different hook
types. Obviously, the first one was a
little bit longer, but it actually fully
explained the topic while the second
approach just gave you the value. What
I'm trying to get at is that it's not
about the value that you give that your
viewers care about. It's that they want
to feel like that you have the solution
for them. The viewer wants to feel
heard. They want to feel seen. They want
to feel like they have a friend who
understands them. Or in other words,
that there's someone that they can
trust. And it's only when they trust you
do they take your information and
implement it and get tangible results in
their life. Most people in their content
skip the step of building trust and
immediately go to giving value. Everyone
will tell you that having a good script
with great information is what makes you
go viral. But really, a good script is
one that keeps attention of the viewer
by building trust with the right
audience. Because having trust plus the
right audience gives you the ability to
monetize. But if you have trust with the
wrong audience, you won't be able to
monetize and you'll be on this hamster
wheel of talking to people that you
don't care about. And if you have no
trust but the right audience, that means
your audience doesn't even watch your
videos. they won't even buy from you.
Therefore, if you want to write a good
script, you shouldn't be focusing on the
value that you give. You need to be
focusing on the insight that you give.
Let's talk about the difference. There's
this Blair Warren quote that I love that
says, "People will do anything for those
who encourage their dreams, justify
their failures, allay their fears,
confirm their suspicions, and help them
throw rocks at their enemies." Most
YouTube gurus will tell you to give
value in your scripts. Well, this makes
sense at first, right? give value and
people will trust you. But what actually
happens when you give value is number
one you find out about something
valuable. You teach it to someone the
how of to someone. You make an offer so
that people can get some more. But the
thing is people don't actually take the
offer because you already gave the
solution away to them. You already gave
them the value. It's not value that you
want to optimize for because
understanding the difference between
value and insights will determine the
type of content that you write in your
scripts and ultimately the type of
videos that you make. Value content is
showing people what YouTube settings are
the best for their channel. It might get
you many many views, but when the viewer
watches this video, they'll go ahead and
apply settings to their own channel and
they won't actually buy any products
from you. But if you make this video
like Oscar Owen did, I showed Will Brown
how to make $750,000 per month on
YouTube. Even though it might get a tiny
fraction of the views, I bet Oscar Owen
actually made a ton of money from this
one specific video because it's show not
tell, he's showing his expertise. And
number two, he's also showing his
authority in the title. So, anyone who
knows Will Brown and wants to learn
about how to grow their channel to such
a big number will watch his video and
end up buying consulting from Oscar Owen
himself. Once again, I want to emphasize
you don't want to build trust with the
wrong audience. You want to build trust
with the right audience. And sometimes
that means going a lot nicher and
showing specific insights that only very
very few people will care about because
your title, thumbnail, and the content
will attract the right audience. And
that's when you convert your viewers
into super fans. Once again, it's true
your insight. You don't want to be
well-known. You want to be known well by
a small group of people. And insight
does that for you. So if I were to
define the difference between value and
insight, value is basically showing
people what to do. Insight is telling
people where to look. Let's look at one
of my previous videos, how to write less
and get better scripts. The topic of the
video is well about how to write bullet
point scripts so that you don't have to
write so much and you can spend less
time scripting your YouTube videos. If I
were to take a value approach, I would
just tell them, hey, this is exactly how
you want to write a bullet point script.
But the problem with just telling them
about how to write a bulletoint script
is that you're just giving them the
value and then they'll go out and
they'll just apply or maybe they won't
even apply because they don't know the
importance of writing a bullet point
script. So if I were to take an insight
based approach, which is exactly what I
did, this is how the video came out.
Well, let's watch this snippet of the
video together right after the
introduction after I've hooked the
viewer in. And now I want to explain the
inside portion of why writing less is
better or why bullet point scripts is
better. Let's watch it together.
>> generated millions of dollars in
revenue. And before we get into the
actual system, let me take you back to
my very first video. It was November
2023 and I was launching this very
channel that you're watching right now.
So, you can see here I'm using a story
hook to reel the viewer in. And then I'm
going to use the story to explain a
certain insight that I want the viewer
to have. I wanted to make sure that I
made the best video possible. So, what
did I do? I spent every single hour
obsessing over every single word to make
sure that it was perfect. And I ended up
spending two whole months just on a
10-minute script. And the result, well,
my video got 10,000 views in the first 2
weeks on a completely fresh channel,
which was a complete success. But my
recording process ended up being 10
hours long. 10 hours. Because I was
looking down at my fully written script,
looking up at the camera, saying the
exact words, looking back down, looking
back up, and there were a bunch of
recording mistakes just because it was
my first time recording. The worst part
is that the script didn't feel natural
at all because I refined it over and
over and over again like I was an
obsessive copyriter or something. So,
you can see in this section over here, I
kind of go through the entire story arc,
me starting my channel, obsessing over
the script, spending all of this time,
still getting results, but it took all
of this time. And then from this story,
really the main insight that I wanted to
leave the viewer with is that number
one, it felt unnatural, which I know
because I talk to my audience a lot. I
talk to you guys a lot that this is
actually a really big problem that when
they write a full script then read it,
it feels unnatural. So when the viewer
hears this, they can immediately relate
to me and it's like, "Oh, Brian
understands me. I'm confirming a certain
truth in their life and it's that it
takes a lot of time to write and it
feels completely unnatural and it's
obsessive and it's a complete waste of
time to write a full script sometimes."
Now, I'm not going to lie to you and say
that writing full scripts don't work.
They definitely do. I do it for most of
my clients. But if you're going to spend
that much time obsessing over every
single word, that is not going to work
in the long term because you're simply
not going to post. So once again, I'm
confirming another of their suspicions
is that I can't actually do it long
term. And this is exact language and
terminology that people who have came to
me exit and I'm repeating the exact
words back to them. This is an insight
that I've gained from working with all
of my clients and talking to so many
people within my community. And if
you're dyslexic at all, like let's be
honest, most YouTubers are, you can't
stand looking at a script for more than
5 seconds at a time without your brain
feeling like it's going to explode. So
for those of you who for the life of you
cannot make fully scripted videos work,
you should try out writing bullet point
scripts. And then I go on to explain how
to write bullet point scripts
afterwards. So in terms of the
fundamentals of what makes an insight a
strong insight, I have three main rules.
Number one is that you always tell the
truth. the viewer can smell when you're
not telling the truth because insight is
only gained from real truth. It's gained
from actually doing the work and the
viewers can feel that. So, you want to
always tell the truth. So, if not the
truth is, oh, this script writing
technique will get you viral, then you
don't say that and you say the truth
instead. It's that you're afraid your
script ideas aren't unique enough to
stand out or you've watched countless
videos on scripting but still feel
there's something missing. Or you spent
5 hours on your last script, but it only
got half the views of your less polished
videos. These are truths in your
audience that your audience is thinking
about that you want to repeat back to
them. Insights fundamental number two is
always be specific. So you don't want to
say this script format will boost your
views. You want to say this hook pattern
increased retention by 34% across 17
videos. Or when we added belief breaking
points every 2 minutes in our scripts
completion rates jumped from 39% to 58%.
Or this script structure helped a
fitness channel go from 4.5K views
average to 27K average views in 60 days.
So, you want to be incredibly specific.
Use numbers whenever you can and don't
be vague because when you're specific,
people know that you're telling the
truth. This goes back to telling the
truth. Whenever you go to your mom and
you tell a lie a kid, you're going to be
very vague and they know. And number
three is to show not tell. Whenever you
can demonstrate expertise, you want to
show it. Tell is just telling the
viewer. It's giving value. So, you want
to show and demonstrate expertise
whenever you can. And you want to always
be thinking about how can I demonstrate
more expertise in every single video
that I make. So instead of saying this
script writing method worked well, which
is a very lame way of telling, you can
say we rewrote a client script using
this method and their video hit $210,000
views in 10 days, their previous record
being a 50,000 view month. After
applying this script writing approach, I
personally went from charging $200 per
script to $2,000 per script in 4 months.
or a photography channel implemented
this script structure and saw their
average watch time increased from 3
minute and 22 seconds to 7 minutes and
45 seconds. And even better if you have
proof of these that you can show on
screen. And me personally, if I don't
skip any of these three fundamentals,
I'm comfortable with pressing upload and
having these in my video. So now you
understand the importance of unique
insight, the difference between value
and insight, and the three insight
fundamentals. How do you actually come
up with these insights? Well, coming up
with these insights is a matter of
asking the right questions. So, there
are four parts of effective research for
your insights. So, number one is
understanding your audience. So, it's
knowing what keeps them up at night,
what do they dream about, what do they
love, how old are they, what is their
demographics, etc., etc. Number two is
competitor analysis. This is a big thing
in research. What insights are your
competitors currently saying that you
can kind of counteract? What is your
audience thinking about because they're
watching all of this other content right
now? Number three is content gathering.
So, it's gathering certain facts,
certain ideas, certain statistics that
you can then counter in your content or
use to back up your insights. And number
four is validation. So, it's checking
that the insights that you have is
actually correct. It's checking that the
facts, statistics that you actually
collected is accurate so that you can
present it to your audience and build
trust that way. is so in order to find
standout insights, I have this list of
questions here that I look at every
single time when I'm trying to write a
YouTube video. I ask myself, what do you
believe to be true that most people
don't? What problem does your audience
have that they can't articulate? What
trick works for you that most people
wouldn't think would work? What's one
common industry practice that you stand
against? What were you wrong about that
you're less wrong about now? What does
everyone get wrong about what you do?
What's one fundamental thing people tend
to forget? What's a false belief your
audience has? and what is your audience
over complicating? So, in this specific
video, what is the insight that I'm
trying to convey to you? So, I looked at
this list and I said, "Oh, what's a
false belief my audience has? My
audience has a false belief that giving
value is the best way to write an
educational script when that's not
actually true. The best way is to give
insight or it's to harness insights from
your daily life and turn that into
YouTube videos." I So, I picked this
specific question and I can actually
turn that into an entire video. that's
just talking about this one thing and
explaining it fully. So once you have
the insight, you want to create a unique
mechanism for it. So you want to give it
a unique name that piqus curiosity and
make it obvious what you're talking
about at the first class. So that's the
two requirements for the name of the
unique mechanism. So an example would be
the backwards scripting framework. So
that's scripting backwards. Maybe it's
writing the body first and then the
hook. Now the belief pattern interrupt
or the out sophistication principle,
right? Some of these has some element of
curiosity, but it's also kind of obvious
what you're trying to talk about if
given the context. So there you go.
That's how you create insightbased
content instead of valuebased content so
that you can build trust at scale and
grow your audience from zero to 100,000
to a million followers because the top
creators have used this. You love all of
your top creators because they give
unique insights. Alex Mosi has unique
insights. Ali Abdal tells you something
new every single week that you haven't
heard before. Because truly only with
unique insights are you able to stand
out from a sea of YouTube videos that
sound the exact same. If you want to
learn how I turned value content into
insightbased content just with a couple
of tweaks, click the link in the
description and I'll send you my cheat
sheet for turning value content into
insight based content so that you can
scale with the right audience and build
trust with them. Also, value versus
insight is just a small portion of
mastering script writing. You still need
to learn how to write hooks, open loops,
how to write the body, how to write a
call to action. And that's why I put
together this full course which teaches
you everything that you need to know
about how to write a great YouTube
video. Click over here and I'll see you
in the next one.